now a huge obstacle to getting
humanitarian Aid into Gaza are the
Border checks Israel insists on making
before trucks are allowed to enter
supplies arrive in Egypt on cargo ships
at Port s or by plane at alar airport a
trucks due to enter Gaz are then checked
by Israeli authorities at nanza then
crossed back to Egypt where they head to
the Rafa crossing the last time any
truck was allowed through uh toafa was
February the 4th or they go to the
Israeli controlled Karam Abu Salem
Crossing for inspection and enter from
that before the War Began around 500
trucks a day would cross into Gaza
through Karam Abu Salam almost none are
getting through now theam heads the Gaza
Emergency Response Team for the aid
group anera he's in rala and joins us
now live good to have you with us uh on
the program as we just heard you know
Aid agency say the aid is there waiting
to go in the Israelis say that they're
allowing more Aid in and with no way for
Al jazer to independently verify what's
going on at the Crossing points which
have been closed by the Israelis it's
hard to understand uh where the hold up
is sure thank you for having me uh as
Matthew was mentioning The Crossings are
really the impediment to getting eight
in we're now 260 days into this war more
than eight and a half months into the
war so the the situation on the ground
has been become desperate and the chaos
is ensuing and both now the North and
the South in Gaza since the operations
uh in Rafa began early May so the amount
of food and other Aid entering into Gaza
is insufficient to meet the soaring
needs uh what was before a challenging
situation has become now even more
desperate and almost impossible to
deliver Aid on the ground so let's talk
about let's just let me just jump in
there and talk about the logistics here
because we know what the problems are
certainly from our correspondents that
are within Gaza in terms of your
knowledge how many Aid trucks do you
estimate from your point of view waiting
to go in from the official seven cross
ings that are available to Gaza but in
theory there are only three potentially
working so so from our experience as an
era we've had almost 80 trucks enter
into Gaza recently uh what's needed is
as the numbers have been mentioned more
than 500 uh a day uh and this requires a
lot of coordination uh to get in so with
the delays of inspection with the delays
of approvals from the Israeli side does
not allow a to get in uh we do need a
permanent service fire to uh happen in
Gaza for the recovery to begin uh we
need to also open up all the access
points in so the trucks are not getting
in the aid is piling piling up at zakim
at Kum abum as well as jot Pier which is
is open but also inaccessible the
biggest thing is security uh there is no
security for our staff to to to go in
and uh deliver the aid uh as well as
even delivering to the people people are
desperately need it I'll talk about
Security in a moment I just want to
touch on something you just mentioned a
moment ago we'll unpick this slowly is
the delicate negotiations that you've
discussed I know that Matthew also
speaks to me on talk to Al jaaz about
this in much more depth but can you
explain to our viewers the amount of or
the variety of the delicacy um of of the
negotiations that you have to
participate in to get that Aid in I mean
what are those negotiations with the
Israelis and how delicate are they sure
I'm happy to to to describe that so to
to get Aid in it requires
pre-coordination at multiple levels okay
you have the kath level who have to
approve the aid that gets into Gaza then
you have the CLA that has to give you
the approval in terms of the movements
within Gaza okay all this has to happen
within a matter of days which means that
all Aid is going to be uh will be
delayed because the the approval NE
necessary is needed prior to um so for
that to happen all this has to happen in
within 24 40 hours and and maybe also
canel at the last minute for security
reasons by the Israeli authorities so
again what's what's lacking is not only
the the the aid in the type of Aid
that's being allowed in for example
proteins meat chicken uh for you know
this past holiday we had we could not
get any meat into for the holid all day
season and as you know is about
Distributing and and delivering me to
the people uh same thing with you know
Frozen or refrigerated Goods that has
not been allowed to to enter in if it
does enter it gets looted on the way so
this is the security aspect so you have
the security issue you have the security
issue but then you also have a
prioritization of the type of loads you
could get approved as you say perishable
items most probably now have to in your
mind would they come down the pecking
order and that you would decide to maybe
send in items be they um long-term food
items or even medicines that would not
be perishable on the rottin and and the
weight at the Crossing
points yes so so this requires very uh
you know strong and strict uh
coordination with Israeli authorities
now I will say that when it comes to the
medicines and the personal items they do
come through but not at the speed at
which they must be uh delivered but the
problem is not that the aid reaches at
the Crossing points is getting that Aid
into Gaza itself this is where the
difficulty lies so the aid can be at The
Crossings uh but to get our trucks to
reach Kum or zakim is very difficult
which means that a is going to will be
probably destroyed uh given the uh
delays uh that require to coordinate the
pickup and as well as not only that
being looted on the way from or zakim
now uh to Gaza so there's multiple
challenges uh in this whole logistical
process and it's literally imagine
you're you're trying to deliver Aid
piece by piece into Gaza when when the
when the pipe is so small so that pipe
has to widen uh for the aid to get
delivered otherwise the people on on the
ground are going to suffer and they're
suffering already the north already
you're seeing instances ofation deaths
because of this indeed Mr G I think we
generally have a very detailed uh
picture of what's going on across the
strip it's also good to get your Insight
as to the difficulties that you face as
an aid group thanks very much for your
time and thanks for joining
us thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler